# threadpool
A fork / join framework threadpool that implements work-stealing and work helping. 
    My thread pool structure contains a global queue of futures, a queue of worker threads, a condition variable to signal when a task is ready to be executed, and one lock to control all the data in the pool. It also includes a shutdown flag and a barrier that syncs all the threads at the start of execution. This is to ensure the threads gain the lock first and are doing most of the work rather then the main routine calling future_get. Each worker has their own queue of futures along with thread id. Each future stores the task and its data, a conditional variable to flag when it is done executing, its status, and reference to the pool it is contained in. 

    I avoid deadlocks by making every function call for the lock and release it after its use. I use no semaphores and only one mutex. This keeps it simple although it seems inefficient. It is necessary because every function reads and writes from the queues in every call. I'm sure there are some parts in my code where the lock isn't necessary, but I take the precaution to reduce bugs. This also ensures that there are no race conditions. There does not seem to cause any reduction in speed up as my results compare well to the benchmark and the rest of the class. 

    A worker thread's flow goes like this: It first encounters a while loop that determine if it should be sleeping or not. A worker thread should be sleeping if the global queue is empty, its worker queue is empty, and all other worker queue's are empty. This is determined in the static function sleeping(). If it should be sleeping it does so and awakens when the work_flag is signaled. This flag is signaled when there is a thread pool submit call. Once a working thread is awoken it must determine which queue to get its task from. First it checks its global queue, then its own. If both are empty then it steals a task from the bottom of the first worker queue that is not empty. All the queues that store futures only store futures that have not been started. Once a future is executing it is removed from whatever queue it was in. The worker queue releases the lock as it no longer needs it and being executing the fork join task. When it is done executing it reacquires the lock, marks the future as completed, and signals the future's cond done flag to let whatever is relying on this future know that it is done executing. The worker thread then repeats this process until the shutdown boolean is flagged.
            
    future_get is pretty simple. If a future has no been executed, it executes it. If it has then it waits for it to be done. I could not figure out how to implement leap frogging. The problem I was having was how to obtain the max(f.depth, g.depth) as described in research paper provided. Specifically I did not know how to obtain f's depth. 
                    
    The only error valgrind is giving is when I run with the race checker, however I believe it is a false positive. It is telling me that I am trying to destroy an unknown condition variable in future_get. However this condition variable is always initialized in future submit and cond_destroy is never called other than in future_free. 
